# Vehicle Management System Using BlockChain

## Abstract

- Managing a vehicle is important in one's life. Either managing data about vehicles or making a carbon-free environment by eliminating polluting vehicles a system is required. This system would help in vehicle theft because at present one is unable to track the vehicle. To solve this problem we are providing a system using Blockchain to manage vehicles including owner data, accident tracker, parts damage, service history and avoid theft by blocking the sale of vehicles in the aftermarket.

## Methodology

- In 2013, 165,690 vehicles are stolen for every 1.2 billion people that accounts for 12.9% of the total population only in INDIA and the numbers lead to shocking results for other countries.
- Vehicle Management system(VMS) is implemented using Hyperledger Fabric. Initially registration offices of the government, service centers of vehicle manufacturers, vehicle theft investigation departments, second-hand vehicle sellers should be registered in TransitChain, a decentralized network. When the vehicle is first sent for registration the basic/owner details are added into VMS by the registration office. MSP(Membership Service Provider) verifies the credentials of the registration office and the basic details about the vehicle are added into ledger using smart contracts. In case of any accident/damage/service/inspection to the vehicle, the necessary details are recorded to VMS by service centers. Service centers verify their credentials in the TransitChain network and existing original vehicle data are updated with timestamp. Registration offices and service centers updating the ledgers is to help second hand buyers. The buyers are also registered into our blockchain network for credibility so that they have the ability to view the detailed record about the vehicle in VMS. Earlier, the information about vehicles was just word of mouth where buyers fall in a grey area. But now the buyer has a clear picture over the vehicle and the information is transparent across users. TransitChain network can serve as a backbone for an application which we are going to develop to sell second hand vehicles. When the vehicle is stolen, the ledger is updated with the information and shared across to identities. Since VMS has all the data about the stolen vehicle, it is not eligible for resale. The aim of this application is to reduce the theft of vehicles that are immediately moved to resale in the aftermarkets.

[PDF link](https://github.com/Sudhanmanoharan/VMS-Project-Proposal)
